Registry mvp docs (#689)
wandb/docs: docs/guides/registry/registry_types.md

---
displayed_sidebar: default
---

# Registry types

W&B supports two types of registries: [Core registries](#core-registries) and [Custom registries](#custom-registries). 

## Core registries

> A core registry is a template for specific use cases with a standardizes setup to maintain core functionality. W&B automatically creates core registries and adds them to the W&B Registry App. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two core registries: Models and Datasets. These will automatically exist in the Registries home page. By default, the Model Registry will be configured to accept artifacts of type="model" and the Dataset Registry will be configured to accept artifacts of type="dataset". An admin can choose to add additional accepted types. 
```

There are two core registries that  W&B supports: Models and Datasets. [INSERT].

## Custom registries

> Use custom registries for greater flexibility and customization. [INSERT]

Reviewer: can you be more specific here on what exactly is different / more flexible or customizable here?

Reviewer: We should also make sure to share examples of what users can use custom registries for: some ideas - a private registry for a specific team, a registry for benchmark datasets, a registry for evaluation datasets, a registry for code, etc.

Author: See this comment: https://github.com/wandb/docodile/pull/689#discussion_r1643194394

> For information on  how to create a custom registry, see [Create a custom registry](./create_collection.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on how to create a custom registry, see [Create a custom registry](./create_collection.md).
```

> ## Registry visibility 

Reviewer: I think the registry visibility should be in its own guide, along with editing user roles/access in a registry settings called access controls

Reviewer: rather than being in a registry types section

There are two registry visibility types: restricted or organization visibility. 

| Visibility | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | Organization | Anyone in the organization can view the registry. |

Reviewer: not necessarily. Anyone in the organization is a user in the registry. It is not necessarily true that all are viewers only.

Author: [See comment below]

Reviewer: commented in there - we should use "access" if we're trying to be agnostic to whether you have read or write access

> | Restricted   | Only invited organization members can view and edit the registry.| 

Reviewer: also not necessarily true -> it depends on the role you have in the registry. It's probably better to first explain the different roles a user can be in a registry (viewer, member, admin, owner) and then use those terms to explain. 

Only invited organization members can access the registry. 

whether they can view or edit the registry depends on which role they get when added. [This](https://weightsandbiases.slack.com/archives/C05UUJ350CA/p1712262412947029) thread has these details 

when a registry is created or when a user is added: by default
org-level admins -> admin
registry creator -> owner
all other org users -> viewer

Author: Noted. The idea behind this table was to highlight  who can see the registry. 

Sort of like, "who has permission to know the registry exists" sort of thing... but perhaps that's the wrong way to think about "visibility"?

Reviewer: Ah yes. Maybe we should try to use language like access (since view and edit have connotations of specific permission). The idea of different visibility, and what we should highlight is "who has access to the registry by default" -> note I used access which is agnostic / avoid specifying view vs edit. 

`| Visibility | Description | Default Role
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Organization | Everyone in the org can access the registry. | If you are an admin for your org, you'll be an admin for the registry by default. All other users will be a viewer in the registry by default | 
| Restricted   | Only invited org members can access the registry.| The user who created the restricted registry is the only user in the registry by default, and is the org's owner. `

Core registries have organization visibility. You can not change the visibility of a core registry. 

A custom registry can have either organization or restricted visibility.  You can change the visibility of a custom registry from organization to restricted. However, you can not change a custom registry's visibility from restricted to organization visibility.

## Summary
The proceeding table summarizes the differences between core and custom registries:

|                | Core  | Custom|
| -------------- | ----- | ----- |
| Visibility     | Organizational visibility only. Visibility can not be altered. | Either organization or restricted. Visibility can be altered from organization to restricted visibility.|

> | Metadata       | Preconfigured and not editable by users. | Users can edit.  |

Reviewer: what is meant by metadata here?

Author: Description, etc.?

> | Artifact types | Preconfigured artifact types that cannot be removed. Users can add additional types. | Fully customizable by users.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Artifact types | Preconfigured accepted types that cannot be removed. Users can add additional types. | All types defined by an admin.|
```

> | Flexibility    | Limited to adding additional types to the existing list.| High flexibility. Users can customize names, descriptions, accepted artifact types and visibility.|

Reviewer: Users can do all the following customization in a core registry: add types, change user roles
```suggestion
| Edit Properties | Add accepted types | Edit registry name, description, visibility, and accepted artifact types. |
```

can we use alternate wording instead of flexibility - core registries have largely the same flexibility so it feels weird to frame one option as high or low flexibility and makes the low flexibility version seem worse.

Author: Changed to "customization"
